reconstruction was implemented in AliRoot with the help from core o✏ine people,
Federico Carminati, Peter Hristov and Cvetan Cheshkov. At di↵erent stages of this
thesis I have learned several important facts from Andreas Morsch, Matevz Tadel and
Latchezar Betev and I owe to them for their patience and help.
However, the winter in CERN is not a very enjoyable time, which I have realized
in the first visit. But, it is the warmth of the friends and colleagues like Badri, Jacob,
Miranda, Sabyasachi (Gudda), Dilip, that helps to survive at this odd environment.
In fact, in bigger sense I have to thank the point II crew and all ALICE members for
the friendly atmosphere.
The memory pages of our brain does not follow the chronological order,
therefore, the colleagues and friends who were associated with me even before the
starting of this course appear at the bottom of the page. It is my greatest pleasure to
have Sanjoy-da, Purnendu-da, Pradip-da, Dabasish-da, Santosh, Bhola, Satya, Safi,
Bhabesh, Lipy-di, Dipankar-da, Sampa, Pappu-da and Sanjib-da around all the time,
whenever I needed them. I would like to convey my sincere thanks to Suvendu Bose
and Tinku Sinha for their suggestions and e↵ort to maintain the homely atmosphere
during the stay at CERN. I would also like to thank Abhee K. Dutt-Mazumdar and
specially to Pradip Roy for the theoretical lessons of heavy ion collisions before the
start of this thesis work. In similar way, I am also thankful to Dinesh Srivastava
for the important discussions and suggestions regarding the HIJING Monte Carlo.
People who know Bikash Sinha, would agree that the Indian e↵ort to the QGP study
at large scale has been started by him. But even within his busy schedule he always
had time for the students and always tried to motivate us towards the fundamental
laws of nature. I would like to thank him for his constant support at every stage
whenever it was needed.
Now only the half of the sun is visible in the horizon and the birds are coming
back to their nests. I remember the appreciation and courage of both of my families
(by birth and in-law’s) that always recharges me at the moment, when I am tired and
shattered. I owe my life to my, father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law and two
grown up children my sister and brother-in-law. In this occasion, I also like to thank
our well wisher Kaushik Mazumder for sharing the wonderful moments with us.
This sunset at the seashore is the moment when the night slowly embraces the
day light at a place where the earth kisses the sea. The ambiance reminds me the
better half of mine, and I like to thank her for everything. A large part of this work
is based on the sacrifice of the sweetest moments of our life. I am fortunate to have
Gargi as wife and without her appreciation, adjustment, sacrifice nothing was possible
to complete.
I am thankful to all of the above persons from the bottom of my heart to help
me to complete this thesis work. When we remember people at our leisure time we
do not mark them with their titles (Prof. or Dr.), but rather by their role in our
life. Therefore, I apologize for my daring thanksgiving which I have cherished in the
serene beach at Goa.
Lastly, I beg apology to all the people whom I have missed to mention in this
page.
.

